# Masters-Project-2025

Statistical methods for crime linkage using R

## Overview
This repository contains the complete source codes, models, functions and datasets used in this project. The aim of this project was to explore statistical methods that can be used to identify crime linkage.

## Structure

**Models and Scripts:**
- Over fitting Test.R - R script to test for over-fitting.
- 100 Samples Distr.R - R script to generate the distributions of the AUC values.
- Similarity GLMs.R - R script to generate the GLM with alternative similarity measures.
- glm test train.R - The Generalised Linear Model for identifying crime linkage.
- SVM Model.R - The Support Vector Machine model used to identify crime linkage.
- GLM v SVM comparison.R - Comparison between crime linkage SVM models and the crime linkage GLMs
- Decision Tree Model.R - The decision tree model using heuristic optimisation.
- Random Forest.R - The Random Forest model used to identify crime linkage.
- XGBoost.R - The XGBoost model used to identify crime linkage.

**Functions**

- Similarity Measures Functions.R - Functions for creating the similarity measure.
- roc curve.R - Function to calculate the ROC curve and AUC value.
- sens vs spec.R - Function to find sensitivity and specificity.
- SMOTE Function.R - Function to oversample data using the SMOTE technique.
- ADASYN Function.R - Function to oversample data using the ADASYN technique.
- Pairwise.R - Function to created pairwise table using the similarity measure.
- entropy.R - Function to find the Entropy value of a dataset.
- information gain.R - Function to find the Information Gain value of a dataset.
- gini index.R - Function to find the Gini index value of a dataset.
- gain ratio.R - Function to find the Gain Ratio value of a dataset.
- feature gini index.R - Function to find the Gini index of a dataset after a feature is split.

**Datasets**
- Characteristics BinaryData.csv & Characteristics BinaryData.rds - A csv and
rds file of the binary data for the behaviour characteristics for each crime.
- Pairwise Table.csv & Pairwise Table.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset A; the
dataset is binary.
- Dataset A.csv & Dataset A.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset A; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset B.csv & Dataset B.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset B; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset C.csv & Dataset C.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset C; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset D.csv & Dataset D.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset D; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset E.csv & Dataset E.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset E; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset F.csv & Dataset F.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset F; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset G.csv & Dataset G.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset G; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset H.csv & Dataset H.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset H; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset I.csv & Dataset I.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset I; the dataset is
binary.
- Dataset J.csv & Dataset J.rds - A csv and rds file of the Dataset J; the dataset is
binary.

**Other Files**
- xgboost trees.html - Trees generated by the XGBoost model
